[low rumbling]
[whooshing]
[rumbling]
[muffled explosion]
[low beeping]
[clicking and beeping]
[beeping]
[electricity whooshes]
[low whirring]
[whirring fades]
[gas hissing]
[mechanical whirring, clicking]
[electrical thumping]
[inhales sharply]
-[monitor beeping]
-[heart beating steadily]
[exhales]
[mechanical whirring]
Good morning, James.
How are you feeling?
Wait. What?
It's perfectly normal
to feel confused.
You just spent 120 years
in suspended animation.
What?
It's okay, James.
-[softly] It's Jim.
-Jim.
Just breathe.
Everything is okay.
Where am I?
You're a passenger
on the Starship Avalon,
the Homestead Company's
premier interstellar starliner.
We've nearly completed
the voyage from Earth
to your new home.
The colony world
of Homestead II.
A new world. A fresh start.
Room to grow.
[whispers] Yeah.
The Avalon
is on final approach.
For the next four months,
you'll enjoy space travel
at its most luxurious.
Food. Fun. Friends.
-My friends.
-That's right, Jim.
The ID band on your wrist
is your key to the wonders
of the Avalon.
[electronic chime]
You're in perfect health, Jim.
Let's get you to your cabin,
where you can get some rest.
[low whirring]
[attendant] You may be
experiencing post-hibernation
sickness.
Your door will illuminate
for you.
Welcome to your cabin,
your home until
we make landfall.
Over the next four months,
you'll prepare for your
new life on Homestead II,
meet your fellow passengers,
take skill-building classes,
and learn about
colonial living.
You've been assigned
to learning group 38
for passengers with engineering
and technical trade skills.
Please scan your ID
to confirm luggage delivery.
Jim.
Please scan your ID
to confirm luggage delivery.
To help you recover from
hibernation, be sure to drink
plenty of fluids.
Enjoy the rest of your voyage
on the Avalon,
a Homestead Company Starship.
[Deejay] Good morning,
one and all.
It's a beautiful morning
here on the Starship Avalon.
Whatever you do, don't get
homesick, get Homestead.
Let's start things off
with one of my favorites
back on Earth.
No.
That's stupid.
Just own it. Own it, Jim.
You got a cool jacket.
[mechanical whirring]
[orchestral fanfare playing]
Hello, passengers.
Will you all please
take a seat?
Welcome, learning group 38.
Your introduction
to colonial life.
Earth is a prosperous planet,
the cradle of civilization.
But for many, it's also
overpopulated,
overpriced, overrated.
I'm sorry, I think
I may be in the wrong...
Hold all questions
till the end, please.
Sorry.
The colonies offer
an alternative,
a better way of life.
Where are all the other...
And there's no colony
more beautiful
than Homestead II,
the jewel
of the occupied world.
[chuckles] I'm sorry.
Where is everybody?
We are all
on the Starship Avalon.
But I'm the only one here.
There are 5,000 passengers
and 258 crew members.
So why am I alone?
We're all in this together.
Hello?
Anybody here?
[Avalon] Please buckle up
and secure any loose items.
This elevator will experience
a momentary lapse in gravity.
[gasping softly]
[rumbling]
[Avalon] Grand concourse.
[whirring]
[Infomat] Hello.
Welcome to the grand concourse
aboard the Avalon.
Can I help you?
I need to talk to a person.
A real live person, please?
What sort of person?
Personal trainer?
Travel planner?
-Therapist?
-I don't know.
Somebody in charge.
The ship's steward
handles passenger affairs.
It's on level three
of the grand concourse.
-Thank you.
-Happy to help.
Not good.
-[Infomat] Hello.
-Who's flying the ship?
The flight crew, the captain,
the pilot,
the chief navigator...
Captain. I want to speak
to the captain.
The captain rarely handles
passenger queries...
It's an emergency! Please.
The captain is usually found
on the bridge,
in the command ring.
[beeping]
[Avalon] Bridge access requires
special authorization.
Bridge access requires
You got to be kidding me.
[panting]
[orchestral fanfare playing]
[observatory] Welcome
to the observatory.
What can I show you?
We're supposed to land soon.
[chuckles]
I... I'm the only one awake.
I don't understand.
What can I show you?
Show me Homestead II.
Homestead II is the fourth
planet in the Bhakti System.
Right. And where are we?
We're in transit
from Earth to Homestead II.
We will arrive in approximately
90 years.
What?
We arrive at Homestead II
in 90 years, three weeks,
and one day.
No. Wait.
How long ago
did we leave Earth?
Approximately 30 years ago.
I woke up too soon.
[Infomat] Hello.
How do I send a message
to Earth?
Interstellar messages
are sent by laser array.
This is an expensive service.
-Bite me.
-Happy to help.
[Avalon] Planet and connection?
Earth. The Homestead Company.
There are 30,826 contacts
listed under Homestead Company.
I'm emigrating to Homestead II
and I have an emergency.
I have a customer help line.
Sounds about right.
Begin message.
Hi. I'm Jim Preston.
I'm a passenger on the Avalon.
I...
I think something went wrong
with my hibernation pod.
I woke up too soon.
And I mean, way too soon.
Nobody else is awake, and...
I don't know how to get
back to sleep.
And the thing is,
there's 90 years to go.
At this rate, I'm...
I'm sorry,
I'm trying to fix this.
Maybe I missed something.
I could use a hand.
That's all.
Thank you.
Message sent.
Outstanding.
Message will arrive
in 19 years.
Wait, what?
Earliest reply in 55 years.
Fifty-five years?
We apologize for the delay.
That will be $ 6,012.
[jazz music playing]
-Afternoon.
-Man!
Is it good to see another face!
Thought I was
the only one awake.
Who wants to sleep
on a beautiful day like this?
No, I mean we're in trouble.
We're not supposed to be here.
Well, I won't tell
if you don't.
Huh?
Our little secret.
What can I get for you?
What?
You look like a whiskey man.
Okay.
You're a robot.
Android. Technically.
Arthur's the name.
-Jim.
-Pleased to meet you, Jim.
How much do you know
about this ship?
I don't know.
I know some things.
What do I do
if my hibernation pod
malfunctions?
Hibernation pods are fail-safe.
They never malfunction.
Well, I woke up early.
Can't happen.
How long until we get
to Homestead II?
About 90 years or so.
And when are all the passengers
supposed to wake up?
Not till the last four months.
How is it that I'm sitting
here with you
with 90 years to go?
It's not possible for you
to be here.
Well, I am.
[Deejay] Good morning.
It's a beautiful day here
on the Avalon.
So wake up, sunshine.
It's time to relax
and enjoy your stay.
[electronic pulsing]
[electronic chime]
[Avalon] Please
make a selection.
Sorry. The Mocha Cappuccino
Extreme is reserved for
gold-class passengers.
Sorry. The Mocha Cappuccino
Extreme is reserved for...
I want
the Mocha Cappuccino Extreme.
Bill my room, please.
Food can be purchased
in the ship's...
Sorry. The French Roast...
Sorry. The Pumpkin Spice...
Sorry. Vanilla Chai...
Sorry. Sorry.
Sorry.
Large coffee.
-Cream...
-Please enjoy your coffee.
Really?
[whooshing]
[electricity crackling]
[pod whirring]
[strained grunting]
[gasps]
[Avalon] Crew pod room access
requires special authorization.
[tool whirring]
[grunting]
[thudding]
[Avalon] Grand...
Going...
Please make... Level...
Grand concourse.
I'm screwed, Arthur.
Completely
and ridiculously screwed.
Come on, now.
Every cloud has
a silver lining.
Guess I am gonna die
of old age on this ship.
We all die.
Even androids end up
on the scrap heap.
I'm your only customer.
Why are you always
polishing a glass?
Trick of the trade.
Makes people nervous
when a bartender just
stands there.
So lay some bartender
wisdom on me.
I'm lost in space here.
You're not where you
want to be.
You feel like you're supposed
to be somewhere else.
[snorts]
You said it.
Well, say you could
snap your fingers
and be wherever
you wanted to be.
I bet you'd still feel
this way.
Not in the right place.
Point is, you can't get so
hung up on where
you'd rather be
that you forget how to make
the most of where you are.
What are you telling me?
Take a break from worrying
about what you can't control.
Live a little.
[grunts]
[electricity whirring]
[Avalon] Welcome
to the Vienna Suite.
Yeah.
[chuckles]
What?
[pop music playing]
-Yeah! Yeah!
-Yeah!
Make that a double
jumbo shrimp.
Triple.
[speaking Japanese]
Dance-off.
All right.
I did exactly
what you just did.
[Avalon] Large coffee.
[Jim speaking Spanish]
[waiter] You have
had many, señor.
[continues speaking Spanish]
Gracias.
Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!
Get out of here!
Come back. Hey.
Come here.
[yells]
[Avalon] Welcome, Jim.
Please turn your attention
to the screens displaying
safety tips.
These spacesuits are designed
to withstand
the harsh environment of space.
The carbon fiber
and polyamide construction
means your suit
is both flexible and durable.
Remember, your spacesuit
is your lifeline.
[beeps]
Slide the handle on the right
to release the air pressure.
Your magnetic boots
are now engaged.
They can be deactivated
using the control panel
on your arm.
Press the red button
to open the airlock door.
Have a wonderful time.
Tether attached.
[Avalon] Welcome back, Jim.
We hope you decide
to join us again soon
for another
thrilling experience.
Have a wonderful time.
[breathes deeply]
[panting]
[groans]
[sobbing quietly]
[exhales]
Aurora.
[Avalon] Searching
passenger profiles.
I'm Aurora Lane.
Passenger 1456. I'm a writer.
I think we tell
each other stories
to know we're not alone,
to make contact.
[man] Your father
was Oliver Lane, a Pulitzer
Prize-winning author.
No pressure, right?
My dad used to say,
"If you live an ordinary life,
all you'll have
are ordinary stories.
You have to live
a life of adventure."
So...
Here I am.
Good morning.
We're starting over
in every way.
I'll have to figure out
where to live, how to live,
who my friends will be.
It's like the first day
of school.
If the school bus
took 120 years to get there.
[chuckles]
We're creating a culture...
You are funny.
Do you ever read something
and feel like it's written
just for you?
I don't do a lot of reading.
She's good.
Who's that?
Aurora.
The sleeping girl.
You know, I'm not saying
the universe is evil,
but it sure has a nasty
sense of humor.
How is that?
You get to fly
to another planet,
but you'll die along the way.
And you find the perfect woman
right in front of you...
Yet she's completely
out of reach.
Yeah, I'll miss New York City.
Give me a cup of coffee
and a view
of the Chrysler Building,
and I can write all day.
They do have coffee
on Homestead II, right?
They better have coffee.
If they don't, I have to turn
around and come back to Earth.
[man] Is there anything
you regret leaving behind?
Yeah, I'll miss the trees
in Central Park
turning in the fall.
I'll also miss crowds...
Say you were trapped
on a desert island,
and you had the power
to wish somebody
there with you.
You wouldn't be alone anymore.
But you'd be stranding
the person on the island.
How do you...
Would you make that wish?
I don't know.
I've never been on an island.
Okay, well, yeah.
Forget the island.
Let's say you figured out
how to do something
that would make your life
a million times better,
but you knew it was wrong
and there's no taking it back.
How do you do the math?
Jim, these
are not robot questions.
[exhales]
I know how to wake Aurora up.
Well, that seems like
a fine idea.
You could use some company.
I'd be stranding her
on this ship
for the rest of her life.
Well, you can't do that.
What am I gonna do?
I'm here for you.
Arthur, you're a machine.
See? You can't feel that.
You don't have feelings.
See?
That doesn't hurt.
And you don't even mind.
'Cause you're not a person.
[grunting]
Don't even think about it.
No more Aurora talk.
I'm over it.
I'm moving on.
Don't even think about it!
What am I gonna do?
I'm just gonna sit
and think about it?
I can't think about it,
so I'm not going to.
That's the deal.
I've made my decision.
I know what I'm doing.
I just cut it off.
I'm not... No more.
You won't hear me
bring up her name again.
I'll never even mention
her name again.
Done.
You can't do it.
Shaving off my beard.
[sighs]
Please don't do it.
[electricity crackling]
[mechanical whirring]
Good morning, Aurora.
How are you feeling?
It's perfectly normal
to feel confused.
You just spent 120 years
in suspended animation.
[panting]
[Avalon] Grand concourse.
[Aurora] Hello?
Anybody?
Hello.
Hi.
Are you passenger or crew?
Passenger.
Jim Preston.
Aurora Lane.
Do you know what's going on?
Nobody else from my row
woke up.
Same for me.
The crew's supposed to wake up
a month before we do,
but I haven't seen anybody.
The crew is still asleep.
Are you saying nobody's awake?
Just me.
Just you?
It's just us.
But somebody's got to land
the ship in a few weeks.
[observatory] We will arrive
in approximately 89 years.
Eighty-nine years?
The other passengers
aren't late waking up.
We were early.
We need help.
Where's the crew?
[Jim] The crew's in a secure
hibernation room.
Everything important,
the controls,
the reactors, the engines...
It's all behind firewalls.
There's no way through.
How long have you been awake?
A year and three weeks.
No. No, no, no.
No, this can't be happening.
We have to go back to sleep.
Aurora, we can't.
We just have to get back
to our pods
and start them up again.
I can't find my pod.
I don't know which...
It doesn't matter.
-Aurora...
-I can't find it!
-Stop. Aurora...
-I can't find which
one is mine!
-Stop.
-I don't know which
one is mine!
-I'll help you.
-I can't...
Stop! It doesn't matter.
[Jim] Putting somebody into
hibernation requires
special equipment.
Remember the facility
where they put us under,
all the procedures
we went through?
These pods are designed
to keep us in hibernation,
to wake us up
at the right time,
but they can't put
us back to sleep.
You don't think there's a way
back into hibernation?
No.
But there has to be.
There has to be.
Nine o'clock. Nighttime.
[soft electronic chiming]
I know I should be
working the problem, but...
I can't even keep my eyes open.
You just came
out of hibernation.
It's going to be a couple
of days before you're 100%.
You should get some rest.
Think I'm gonna have to.
I'll walk you to your cabin.
No, it's okay.
I'll be all right.
Okay.
[electronic bell dings]
Good night, Aurora.
[sighs]
More than a year?
I can't imagine.
It must have been
so hard for you.
It was.
Good night, Jim.
[Avalon] Please buckle up
and secure any loose items.
-Whiskey, neat.
-Sure thing.
[whirring]
How's your day been?
Aurora's awake.
Congratulations.
You don't look happy.
Arthur, can you keep a secret?
Jim...
I'm not just a bartender,
I'm a gentleman.
Don't tell Aurora
that I woke her up.
She thinks it was an accident.
Let me tell her.
Of course.
[gasping]
How can there be no way
to put someone back
into hibernation?
What if a pod breaks down?
[Infomat] No hibernation pod
has malfunctioned in thousands
of interstellar flights.
Well, I'm awake.
Hibernation pods are fail-safe.
Good morning.
-Have you eaten?
-No. I'm starving.
And this
is the dumbest machine.
Happy to help.
[Avalon] Gold-class breakfast.
Well, you're a man
of simple tastes.
I'm not a gold-class passenger.
French breakfast puff's
above my pay grade.
What? This whole time?
-Yeah.
-What can I get you?
-No. No, I'm fine.
-Stop it.
Really. Okay.
Here you go.
[laughs quietly]
Yeah.
So, I was thinking,
maybe there's another
way to go to sleep.
What about the infirmary?
I checked it out.
It's just scanners
and an Autodoc.
There could be another
hibernation machine
in the cargo hold.
I had that thought, too.
And then I read the manifest.
It's mostly farming stuff,
machines, and trade goods.
Replacement parts
for computers and engineering.
We're not gonna find
a hibernation facility
in a box.
-We could build our own.
-We can't.
Jim, you're not even trying.
I have tried everything.
For over a year, I...
I tried everything.
Well...
Well, I'm not ready to give up.
[Avalon] Infirmary.
What about research articles?
Any kind of technical
documents.
[Avalon] Hibernation technology
is proprietary.
The following articles deal
with the subject on
a theoretical level.
[grunting]
[whirring and thumping]
New file. My voyage.
I boarded the Avalon
with an idea,
a destination.
Both now out of reach.
I've been awake for seven days.
Awake far too soon.
And I may well spend
the rest of my life here,
in a steel world
1,000 meters long.
There's another passenger
awake, a mechanic
named Jim Preston.
He seems to have accepted
our fate.
But I'm scared.
I'm fighting to stay calm.
All the other passengers
will sleep
for another 90 years,
while I live out my life
on this ship,
traveling forever...
Never arriving...
My only companion
a total stranger.
Why did you do it?
Do what?
Emigrate. Leave Earth.
I'm interviewing you.
You're what?
You were the first hibernation
failure in the history
of space travel.
That makes you a story.
Who you gonna tell?
Posterity.
So, why did you
give up your life on Earth?
A 120-year space hibernation
means you'll never see
your family or friends again.
You'll wake up in a new century
on a new planet.
It's the ultimate
geographical suicide.
Well, I could ask you
the same thing.
But it's my interview.
Were you running away
from something?
No.
-Everything was okay.
-So?
Well, I guess I just wanted
a new world,
I don't know, a fresh start.
That's Homestead
Company advertising.
-Is it?
-Jim.
I know. I guess. You're right.
Back on Earth, when something
breaks, you don't fix it,
you replace it.
The colonies,
they have problems to solve.
They're my kind of problems.
And a mechanic is somebody.
This is a new world
still being built.
I could build a house
and live in it.
Open country. Room to grow.
Now you're back to slogans.
Can't slogans be true?
Do you know how much
Homestead Company
made off its first planet?
Eight quadrillion dollars.
That's eight million billions.
Colony planets
are the biggest business going.
Did you pay full price
for your ticket?
No. I'm in a desirable trade.
So they fill your head
with dreams,
discount your ticket,
and you fly off
to populate their planet,
and give Homestead
20% of everything that you make
for the rest of your life.
Not to mention the debt
you run up
on this fancy starship.
So all you see here
is 5,000 suckers?
I see zeros
on the Homestead Company's
bottom line.
I see 5,000 men and women
changing their lives.
For 5,000 different reasons.
You don't know these people.
I'm a journalist.
I know people.
Really?
This one.
Is he a banker, a teacher,
or a gardener?
-Banker.
-He's a gardener.
And her. Is she a...
Madison, Donna, or a Lola?
Donna's too serious
for that hair.
Lola.
-Madison.
-Shit!
All right, chef, accountant,
or midwife?
She has to be a midwife.
There's no way you just made
that one up.
Yeah. She's a midwife.
I didn't know they still
had midwives.
I like her. We'd be friends.
You think you can see that?
Don't you?
I do.
-A round-trip ticket?
-That's right.
I was gonna fly
to Homestead II,
live for a year,
and then right back to Earth.
I don't get it. I left Earth
for a new life,
but you end up back
where you started?
I end up in the future.
Two hundred and fifty years
in the future,
on Earth, which is still
the center of civilization,
like it or not.
And I'll be the only writer
to ever travel to
a colony world and come back.
I'll have a story no one
else can tell.
What story?
Humanity's flight to the stars.
The greatest migration
in human history.
It's the biggest story
there is.
But you won't know
any of the people who
are reading it.
But they'd be reading it.
Or they would have been.
I'll never write it now.
I don't know if I'll ever
write again.
Jim, I can't think of anything
else to try
to save us.
And I don't even want to
think about it anymore.
What is there to do
around here?
[electronic music chiming]
-Are you serious?
-Dead serious.
-Partner mode.
-[video game] Let's get it on!
Come on, get in power mode.
[upbeat dance music playing]
You just stand here.
And then we repeat
what they do.
Is there anything else
we can do?
-Just do the...
-Okay.
-You don't have to.
-Okay. I can...
-[video game] Beat down!
-Hey!
Here we go. Let's see it.
Whoa! Whoa!
-Why you smiling?
-Aurora! Aurora!
'Cause I'm up two points.
Who's the lovely lady?
This is Aurora.
Aurora. A pleasure.
[laughs]
-I can't!
-You did great!
Okay, one more time.
One more time, let's see it.
Yes!
[chuckles]
I swear, I didn't wear pants
for a month.
Seven weeks and two days,
to be exact.
The man has no shame.
Well, you're a little lacking
in that area yourself, Arthur.
[Jim and Aurora laugh]
I laughed at the man
with no pants
until I realized
I have no legs.
For a minute,
I almost forgot my life
is in ruins.
I'm sorry.
What for?
I'm gonna go to bed.
Good night.
-All right.
-Good night, Aurora.
She is wonderful.
Excellent choice.
[tools clicking]
[water splashing]
[machine powers up]
[electrical whirring]
Hello.
Hi.
Here you go.
Is he asking me on a date?
Do you need a pen?
She didn't seem that impressed.
[sighs]
"Love to." She wrote,
"Love to."
You have a visitor.
[electronic chime]
Wow.
You clean up
pretty good yourself.
You went shopping.
I went shoplifting.
Evening.
What can I get for you?
I'll have a Manhattan, please.
-Whiskey, rocks.
-Coming up.
You two look fine this evening.
Thank you, Arthur.
We're on a date.
Very nice.
Took you long enough to ask.
I was giving you space.
Space.
The one thing
I do not need more of.
[speaking French]
That was so good.
It wasn't easy getting
a reservation.
They're probably gonna want us
to give up our table.
I'm getting
a lot of dirty looks.
Very popular tonight.
[Aurora chuckles]
So how's your book coming?
I don't really know
what it is yet.
My dad, he used to always
write about his life,
but he had stories.
He'd sailed around Antarctica.
He was a war reporter.
He had lovers.
He wrote about his daughter.
He wrote about you?
Yeah. I grew up reading
about myself in his books.
How was that?
Not always easy.
A little more than you wanted
to know about yourself.
And then, when I was 17,
he had a heart attack.
Right at his keypad.
End of story.
That was so serious. I'm sorry.
We need more wine.
I like hearing about your life.
Thanks.
Why are we here?
You'll see.
Best show in town.
So you've done this before?
Yeah.
And it's safe?
No.
Reasonably safe.
Hop in. You're next.
What about my dress?
Right.
[chuckles]
Turn around.
[Avalon] Tether attached.
What are you doing?
Do you trust me?
Thank you.
[Aurora exhales]
You're the most beautiful woman
I've ever seen.
You kill me.
You okay?
Yeah.
I'm fine.
It's just...
[sighs]
Yeah, I know.
[Aurora] So,
I'm seeing someone.
You'll never guess who.
We're the last two people
in the world
who would ever get together.
But here we are.
The last two people
in the world.
What's that?
I'm writing, Arthur. Hush.
Jim and I live
in accidental happiness.
Like castaways,
making their home
on strange shores.
"Strange shores." I love it.
You do? You don't have
to say that.
-I know.
-You're not gonna eat this.
Does that seem fishy to you?
Keep reading.
It's funny.
We all have dreams.
We plan our futures
like we're the captains
of our fates.
But we're passengers.
We go where fate takes us.
I can't
Help
Arthur!
[Aurora] This isn't the life
we planned.
But it's ours.
And for the first time
in my life,
I don't feel alone.
We weren't supposed
to find each other.
But we did.
He makes me feel like my life
isn't over.
Like it's just beginning.
How was your day?
Good. I wrote a few pages.
Did you find anything
that can help us?
-I did.
-Are they real?
I cut them myself.
You know,
for two unlucky people,
we sure got pretty lucky.
[rumbling]
[Avalon] Attention.
You may wish to proceed
to a viewing area.
The Avalon will slingshot
around the star Arcturus.
Look!
Oh, my God!
[Aurora gasps]
That was amazing.
A red giant.
The universe's present to you.
What?
Happy birthday.
[chuckles]
Happy birthday to you
Happy birthday, dear Aurora
[Arthur] A birthday drink
for the birthday girl.
Aren't you going to ask
for my ID?
I might not be old enough
to drink.
I would never ask your age
in front of a gentleman.
Jim's no gentleman.
Anyway, there's no secrets
between me and Jim.
-Is that so?
-You heard the lady.
I will be right back.
This is a perfect
birthday drink.
Thank you.
I remember this day a year ago.
Jim was so looking forward
to meeting you.
What?
How could he be
looking forward to it?
He spent months deciding
whether to wake you up.
He couldn't stop
talking about you.
Jim woke me up?
Yes.
He said it was
the hardest decision
of his life.
But I see it worked out
just fine.
What?
Did you wake me up?
Yes, I woke you up.
[gasps]
How...
How could you do it?
I tried not to.
[gasping]
I'm gonna be sick.
I can't see.
[panting]
Aurora, please...
Stay away from me!
I can't get off this ship.
I can't get off.
[panting]
No!
[sobbing]
Oh, God.
Can I talk to you?
[grunts]
[sobbing]
[Jim] Aurora,
I know nothing I can say
will make this okay.
But please listen.
I was so alone
for so long.
It felt like
I was disappearing.
The night I first saw you,
I was ready to...
You saved my life.
And I know that's no excuse
for what I did.
I read everything you wrote,
and I fell in love
with your voice
and with the way
your mind works.
I fell in love with you.
And all of a sudden,
it was like
I wasn't trapped anymore.
My pointless life suddenly
had meaning.
And I wish I could take
it back.
But I can't.
Aurora, I don't want
to lose you.
I don't care!
I don't care what you want!
I don't care why you
woke me up!
You took my life!
[electrical static hums]
[electricity powers down]
[Avalon] Please stand by.
Your suite's control center
is rebooting.
[distorted chirping]
[alarm beeping]
[jazz music playing]
I envy you, Arthur.
How so?
You have a purpose.
You're always happy.
How's your book coming along?
I've never written
about myself before.
I think it's some of the best
work I've ever done,
and I don't even know
why I'm doing it.
There's only one person who
could read it,
and I can't stand him.
They say time heals all wounds.
Broken hearts
aren't that simple, Arthur.
You wouldn't understand.
[Jim] Arthur!
Tuesday's my day with Arthur.
It's Wednesday.
The bar's all yours.
What'll you have? Whiskey?
Coffee.
Aurora! We love you!
What are we gonna
do without you?
We'll miss you so...
[crowd whooping]
You're the bravest woman
I know.
[crowd] Bye, Aurora!
I promise that I will think
of you every day.
When you wake up, I'll be gone,
but just know
that I will never forget you.
You're my best friend.
You were never happy here.
I know.
Nothing was ever
enough for you.
You know, you don't have to go.
You could do
whatever it is you have
to do right here.
But...
Since you're going,
here's my wish.
I hope you finally find someone
who fills your heart,
and I hope you let him in.
I hope you realize you don't
have to do something amazing
to be happy.
You know, have fun,
take chances.
Um, okay.
I love you, Aurora.
Bye.
Morning, Arthur!
-Coffee, please.
-Coming up.
Are you soiling my barstool?
You want to make things,
you got to get
your hands dirty.
And what have you been making?
Improvements.
[Avalon] Grand concourse.
[Avalon] First floor.
-[loud thump]
-[elevator stops]
[distorted beep]
[beeps]
[Avalon]
Gold-class breakfast.
[gasps]
[grunts]
[groans]
[Gus over speaker]
This is Deck Chief
Gus Mancuso.
Who the hell planted a tree
on my ship?
-Who did that?
-I did.
Who are you?
Jim Preston.
Aurora Lane.
Anybody else awake?
Just me and him.
How far along are we?
Eighty-eight years to go.
[sighs]
Hibernation failure.
They said
that couldn't happen.
Three people,
three pod failures.
You have no idea
how long I've been
trying to get in there.
Now that you're in,
don't touch anything.
[Aurora]
This is where you work?
No, this is flight crew.
I'm a deck chief.
Ops, Navigation, Comm.
Hmm.
-[beep]
-[Avalon]
Unauthorized personnel.
Sorry.
[sighs]
If I'm reading this right,
we're still on course.
So whatever's wrong
with the ship,
NavCom is still on the job.
There's something wrong
with the ship?
Three pod failures?
Yeah, there's something wrong.
Question is what.
That's strange.
We should be getting
diagnostics from all over
the ship right here,
but there's no data.
Got to check
all the systems manually.
Can't we turn
the ship around,
go back to Earth?
No, we're doing 50%
of light speed.
Turning back would
take just as much time
as going on.
Well, there's got to be
something we can do.
Sorry. We're going
where we're going.
[Gus exhales and grunts]
You okay?
Hibernation hangover.
Get it all the time.
[Avalon] Grand concourse.
Two years, huh?
Any more trees
I need to know about?
-[clack]
-Look out!
[clicking]
Never seen that before.
These robots
have been breaking down.
This guy makes fifteen?
Fifteen.
The breakfast bar
went crazy today.
-Yeah, and an elevator.
-Last week, my door broke.
-I was trapped in my cabin
for two days.
-You were?
Things like that
don't happen.
Not on this ship.
There are 16 of these
tech stations on every deck.
Dock your slate.
-Data syncs automatically.
Got it?
-Hmm.
-Yeah.
-[Gus] Okay.
You take decks one and two.
You take decks three and four.
I'm going down to
the hibernation bay,
check our pods.
Well, that should
be interesting.
Ain't you supposed to be
making your rounds?
I'm finished.
[clicks tongue]
I checked your pod.
Problem's very simple.
The clock chip's burnt out.
It ain't supposed to happen,
but pretty simple.
My pod's more complicated.
Bunch of system failures that
all happened at the same time.
Whole damn thing went haywire.
[inhales and grunts]
Explains why
I'm feeling so bad.
But Aurora's pod...
You did this.
[whispers] Yeah.
All this time,
I'm thinking you're
one lucky son of a bitch
to get stuck with Aurora.
It wasn't luck, was it?
[whispers] No.
She knows?
She knows.
How long were you alone?
A year.
Still...
Damn.
[Avalon] Data received.
[door whirring open]
Data received.
[Gus sighs]
-Data received.
-Same as Jim's.
Interpolating data.
System shutdowns...
Everywhere,
but no apparent connection.
You saw the hibernation pods?
I saw them.
Data received.
So you know...
What Jim did.
Yeah.
And?
-It's not my...
-He woke me up.
He took away my life.
I know, and I'm sorry,
but there's work I'd...
It's murder.
You're right, Aurora.
But the drowning man
will always try and drag
somebody down with him.
It ain't right,
but the man's drowning.
[door whirring open]
This one makes 16.
[sighs] Yeah.
[coughing]
Hey. You okay?
-You should go rest.
-[grunts] Yeah.
But just a couple hours,
and then back at it
first thing in the morning.
[Gus sighs]
[coughing]
[retches]
[rumbling]
[beeping]
[grunting]
[gasping]
[muffled grunting]
[gasps]
[trilling]
[beep]
[whirring and rumbling]
[grunts]
[gasping and sputtering]
[gasping]
[coughing]
[panting]
I was in the pool
when the gravity gave out.
Are you okay?
We need to find Gus.
-[pounding]
-[Aurora] Gus! Gus!
Gravity loss means that
whatever's wrong is starting
to hit the big-ticket items.
Not good.
Every failure's
a burnt out processor.
Everything on board's
thinking too hard.
Why?
Computer, display
these failures over time.
[Avalon] Processing timeline.
Cascade failure.
It started two years ago.
Power surge.
Seventeen failures
in one day.
Including
hibernation pod 1498.
That's me.
Woke me up.
-What happened that day?
-Something big.
A major system
went down somewhere.
Everything else on board
is trying to pick up the load,
but the load's too heavy.
Whatever started this,
we got to find it.
-And fix it.
-How bad can this get?
-[beep]
-Give me risk analysis
based on this data.
[Avalon] Extrapolating.
A mission-critical failure
is imminent.
Failing systems.
Life Support,
Fusion Reactor...
So we're stranded.
Hibernation Bay, Ion Drive...
On a sinking ship.
[Avalon] Main Engineering.
Not a lot of things
big enough to hit
this ship that hard.
With Diagnostics out,
we'll have to find it
ourselves.
-[Jim] Where do we start?
-[groans]
-Gus!
-[grunts]
[Autodoc]
Scan complete.
Analyzing data.
[trilling]
[strained] What's it say
is wrong with me?
It's a few things.
[Autodoc]
612 disorders found.
Get me out of here.
[sniffs]
[grunting]
What's the prognosis?
[Autodoc] Critical diagnoses
cannot be discussed
without a doctor in attendance.
Override on my authority.
ID 2317.
Lay it on me, doc.
Pansystemic necrosis.
Progressive organ failure.
Cause, unknown.
My goofy hibernation pod.
That's the cause.
-What's the treatment?
-Various treatments
are possible.
None will meaningfully extend
the patient's life.
How long have I got?
Your end-of-life transition
is already underway.
[beeping]
These sedatives will
alleviate your suffering
during these final hours.
[wheezing softly]
Gus.
I need a minute.
[wheezing]
[gasping]
[panting]
[distorted rumbling]
[Avalon] We are experiencing
difficulties in flight.
[alarm beeping and wailing]
-Gus!
-Where could he be?
-[alarm blaring]
[Avalon] For your own safety,
please return
to your cabins.
[alarm wailing in distance]
We are experiencing
difficulties in flight.
For your own safety,
please return to your cabins.
[weakly] Should've took
the damn pills.
-I'll go get them.
-No. Stay here with me.
[groans softly]
Sit down.
You two take care
of each other.
[grunts softly]
[groans]
My ID.
[wheezes]
Get you where you need to go.
Fix the ship.
Find out
what's wrong with her.
How do I look?
You look magnificent.
[sighs] Ladies love
the dress blues.
What do we do now?
[loud rumbling]
[alarm blaring]
This can't be good.
-[rumbling]
-[gasps]
I'm going back
to Engineering.
Can you fix this?
I need your help.
-[rumbling]
-Let's go.
[both grunt]
[alarm continues wailing]
[glass shatters]
[whirring]
[rapid distorted music plays]
Arthur!
[gasps]
[Aurora grunting]
[powering down]
Let's go.
[whispers] Yeah.
[Avalon] Main Engineering.
Can't we wake up
some of the crew?
It'll take them
too long to recover.
We don't have
that kind of time.
What are we even looking for?
Something broken.
Something big.
Come on.
Is it broken?
It seems okay.
What's next?
Power plant.
This way.
-[electronic chime]
-[alarm buzzes]
-Come on.
-[chimes and buzzes]
The whole section's
closed off.
Something's wrong.
We're looking for wrong.
Try to open it.
[tool whirring]
[Aurora screams]
[Avalon] Warning.
Pressure fault.
Lockdown initiated.
[screaming]
-Please secure all doors.
-Hold on!
Warning.
Dangerous oxygen level.
Please secure all doors.
[grunting]
Dangerous oxygen level.
Please secure all doors.
[straining]
Grab it!
[grunts]
[whirring]
Pressurizing
cabin unsuccessful.
[panting]
[gasping]
Pressure normalized.
-[gasps]
-Oxygen level restored.
-[panting] There's a...
-End lockdown.
A hole in the ship.
[both panting]
[Jim] More than one.
How did that even happen?
The ship's supposed to be
meteor-proof.
[Jim] I guess
one got through.
[steam hissing]
[Jim] It's hot.
[loud rumbling]
[alarm blaring]
[Aurora]
I think we found it.
[distorted popping]
It's the reactor-control
computer.
This is what hit us
two years ago.
Jim...
How can we fix this?
We're gonna die.
There's replacement parts
for everything.
-[distant rumble]
-[gasps]
-Light.
-Sorry.
Soon as I pull this module,
the entire computer's gonna
shut down.
Well, what happens then?
[panting]
I'll get it back up
as quickly as I can.
[loud rumbling]
Hurry!
-Jim!
-[whispers] Okay.
[whirring]
[Avalon]
Control computer restored.
[trilling]
Venting reactor.
-But we fixed it!
-Reactor vent failed.
Manual override required.
Vent failure.
-Come on!
-Jim.
[Avalon]
Outer door nonresponsive.
What does that mean?
The outer door is jammed.
We've got to open that door
and cool the reactor down,
or the whole ship
is gonna blow.
-How?
-I got to go out there.
Open it from the outside.
I open the door, I get clear.
-You blow that fire
into space.
-You get clear?
You can talk to me
through this.
What happens to you
when that door opens?
Heat shield. It might help.
You might need this.
It's gonna be okay.
[loud rumble]
I better go.
Jim. Jim.
Come back to me.
I can't live on the ship
without you.
[gasps]
[beep]
[shouts]
[alarm blaring]
[Avalon] Warning.
Temperature critical.
Ow!
[rumbling and popping]
[groaning]
What's wrong?
What's the matter?
-Are you okay?
-Nothing.
-Go.
-You sure?
Go.
I'm at the vent tube.
[Avalon] New anchor point.
Reset tether.
I see the door.
[Avalon]
Temperature level rising.
[gasps]
[squeals]
[sighs]
[Avalon] Warning.
Temperature critical.
Containment unstable.
[gasps]
-Where are you?
-I'm at the door.
[Aurora] I'm ready.
Just say when.
[Jim] Here goes.
[whirring]
The door won't open.
I'll have to bypass it.
[Avalon]
Temperature level rising.
[Aurora] Jim, come on!
Please hurry!
-Okay, I'm trying it again.
-Tell me when you're clear.
-No!
-What?
What's going on?
Jim?
Jim!
The door won't stay open.
I think I have to stay here.
Hold the door open.
What?
No!
No way! Get out of there!
I can't.
Jim.
We're out of time.
-[Avalon]
Containment unstable.
-Jim?
Vent the reactor.
[explosive pop]
[loud rumbling]
[Aurora] No!
You don't understand!
If I open
the door right now,
it'll kill you!
I'm hoping not.
Come back in.
We'll think of
something else.
[Jim] There is nothing else.
[Aurora panting] Jim!
-It's okay.
-No!
-It's not okay!
-Aurora...
[Avalon] Warning.
Temperature level exceeded.
This isn't what you said
was gonna happen!
Aurora,
this ship is gonna go.
I don't care!
You die, I die.
There are 5,000 other people
on this ship, Aurora.
We have to do this.
[explosive popping]
[Avalon]
Maximum pressure reached.
Do it. Now.
[Avalon] Maximum
cabin pressure reached.
[crying]
[sobs loudly]
[yelling]
[yelling continues over radio]
[Avalon]
Temperature dropping.
[distorted yelling]
Jim.
[yelling continues]
[tether clanks]
-Jim?
-[Avalon] Vent successful.
Rebooting process initiated.
[Aurora] Jim,
please say something.
[rumbling]
[panting]
-[Avalon]
Suit pressure dropping.
-[air hissing]
Return to ship immediately.
-[beep]
-Aurora?
[gasps and laughs]
It worked!
You did it! You can come in!
Yeah, about that.
What's the matter?
Are you hurt?
I got blown out of the tube.
-What?
-My tether broke.
I can't get back to the ship.
I'll come out.
I'll pull you in.
[Avalon] Warning.
Oxygen level critical.
Return to ship immediately.
[grunting]
[Jim panting]
Aurora, I'm sorry.
For everything.
Shut up. I'm coming.
[Jim] I wish we'd have met
in 90 years.
I'd have built you a house.
I'd have read your book.
It's gonna be great.
[panting]
[Avalon] Tether attached.
[Aurora] Locate Jim Preston.
[trilling]
[Avalon]
Jim Preston located.
I'm coming to get you.
[Aurora panting]
-[beeps]
-[Aurora grunts]
Jim!
[crying]
[gasping]
[grunting]
[screaming]
[whirring]
[Autodoc] I'm sorry.
The patient is dead.
Well, resuscitate him!
Postmortem operations require
authorized medical supervision.
[crying] No.
Jim.
[gasping]
-[beeps]
-Override!
Override on my authority!
ID 1-7...
[stammers]
Two...
Two. Two.
[softly] God, 2-3-1-7.
2-3-1-7! ID 2-3-1-7!
[beep]
Resuscitation.
[Autodoc]
Multiple procedures
are not recommended.
Override! Do it now!
Executing.
[whirring]
[clicking]
[electrical thumping]
[sobbing]
[exhales slowly]
[gasps]
[Aurora] Hi!
[breathing slowly]
[laughing] Jim!
Hey, Jim.
[Aurora laughing]
[Aurora sniffles]
[softly] You brought me back.
Yeah.
-Thank you.
-Be still.
Of course.
There's something
I have to show you.
In command mode,
it turns out
the Autodoc has an option
called Stabilize and Suspend.
It stops
all metabolic activity.
What are you saying?
With Gus's ID,
it can be like hibernation
inside the Autodoc.
You can go back to sleep.
But there's only one Autodoc.
Yeah.
And you're gonna
lay down in it...
And fall asleep.
And you'll wake up
on Homestead II.
And you'll write your book.
You'd finish your journey.
You'd do what you set out
to do.
You'd be alone.
I've been alone before.
And I'll be fine.
But I would
never see you again.
I'll come and visit you.
[Aurora] Tuesday is my day
with Arthur.
[Arthur] Lovely as ever.
Thank you, Arthur.
You're looking very well
yourself.
Thanks to you.
What's that?
Something I've wanted
to give you
for a long time.
It's beautiful.
Took you long enough to ask.
Champagne.
I'll wait.
[whispers]
Hell of a life.
[chuckles]
[whispers]
Hell of a life.
[Avalon] Crew wake-up
process initiated.
[Aurora]
My fellow passengers,
if you're reading this,
then the Starship Avalon
has reached its destination.
[Avalon]
Grand concourse.
[Aurora]
A lot happened
while you slept.
A friend once said,
"You can't get so hung up
on where you'd rather be
that you forget to make
the most of where you are."
We got lost along the way.
But we found each other.
And we made a life.
A beautiful life.
Together.